The Oculus Quest 2 was an exciting buy, as it reminded me of the original iPhone: a form factor fit for prime time. What makes it compelling is that the user can move around untethered, running apps with ample processing power and decent battery life.

I had prior experience with VR, having re-built a cross-platform video streaming app called Anzac360. The Unity-based project was fun to create, and exposure to the Rift and Oculus Go was eye-opening. 

The initial hours of playing with Quest 2 was one of the most impactful moments in my gadget life. The *Epic roller coasters* app was first up on the list, and playing it in shooter mode with a controller in each hand was novel (a generation of ambidextrous children is coming). This motion-packed game is slightly nauseating, but still tolerable and each whirl felt better than the last.  Next up was a fishing simulator called *Bait*, which gave a solid intro to the training potential of VR. It was a little frustrating to get the knack of the controls, but appealing enough to hold my attention, and the low fish take reminded me of real waters. Next up was a boxing game called *Thrill of the fight*. This is an intimdating game- the opponent is ripped, big, and sees every opportunity to break your defences (AI strikes again). The game is exhausting, and good for fitness or a work break.

At this point, I really appreciated the extra features built into Quest 2 for user orientation in the physical environment: including the front facing grayscale cameras to see the room when switching the device on, as well as the virtual hand controllers to help find the real sticks when not in hand. A guardian boundary demarcated by the user helps you to stay clear of surrounding objects.

The game that blew me away was *Eleven* table tennis. After basic onboarding, a notification popped up for a game invite. I accepted, and within a few seconds, a human voice greeted me. I replied, realised it was a legit conversation, and then we commenced play. It was a shaky start on the serving front, but the opponent (from New Zealand) coached me through the trouble, and then we hit stride. During rallies we spoke about South Africa, Australia and VR, and had a fair game. The social power of VR struck home, and facebook's venture in Oculus seemed like a completely natural fit. I only realised a few days later that real-time shot-making with internet latency shows how good the internet has become.

The Quest 2 runs essentially on Android for its primary untethered mode, for which there are fewer game titles available than on the Oculus Rift series headsets, which runs connected to a PC (typically Windows). But hey presto, the Quest 2 can also connect to a PC, and run the same apps as Rift. So, best of both worlds. You need a USB 3 cable, and your smartphone charging cable probably can't do the job. Oculus supplies a special fibre optic 5m "Oculus link", which can handle high data throughput, and survive many hours of play. As you might expect, it is expensive. After some scouting on Amazon and Google for substitutes, it turned out that the Oculus link is pretty much the only option. The major marketplaces for Oculus compatible apps are Steam VR and the Oculus store. I had previously bought a racing game called Dirt 2.0 on Steam, and it so happens to also run on VR. So off to the races. The experience of racing on VR brings valued depth perception, and added viewing such as the vehicle interior. It felt like I could handle the car better, but I also drove more conservatively because the trees and rocks looked more hazardous. The experience was a lot more nauseating than the roller coaster game, suprisingly. Navigating the rally menus via PC keyboard with head-set on was cumbersome, and the Quest 2 optimised games offer much better situational awareness. Performance-wise, the Quest 2 native games perform smoothly in general, and the PC-connected rally game was the most sluggish of all the titles I played (on a mid-range gaming laptop). Comparisons are difficult, but the roller-coaster game felt to me visually rich, varied and silky.

Watching 2D movies in VR is a lot more immersive than a flat screen. I watched a David Attenborough series called *Our Planet*, and the ocean scenes were palpable with edge-to-edge viewing and no peripheral distractions. Still, I found myself not watching films on the head-set, because extended use is uncomfortable.

We have all witnessed the ubiqituous adoption of mobile apps in virtually all spheres. Will VR turn out the same? The question is easier to answer in sectors such as fashion retailing, but harder in others: like banking, classifieds, or news feeds. I looked up applications of VR in banking, and found this link: 
https://arpost.co/2020/04/22/benefits-virtual-reality-banking/
If banking can benefit from VR, it would seem that every industry could be affected in some way.

What seems inevitable though, is that VR will bring giant waves of progress in human computer interaction.

Apple's alleged upcoming move into VR is exciting. With Apple silicon, and their wonderful display pedigree, they are sure to make a dent in the virtual universe. 
